## 3.4 Data types
 
    the lastest ecmascript standard defines 9 types:

    - six Data Types:
      undefined
      Boolean
      String
      Number
      BigInt
      Symbol
    - 2 structural types:
      Object
      Function  typeof instance === 'function'
    - structural Root Primitive:
      null      typeof instance === 'object'


### The Undefined Type
- 1.the undefined type has only one value, which is the special value undefined. when a variable is declared using var of let but not initializedReact.Component

- 2.Only one useful operation can be performed on an undeclared variable, u can call typeof on it.


### The Null Type

> Logically, a null value is an empty object pointer, which is why `typeof` returns "object".
```js
let car = null;
console.log(typeof car); //"object"
```

> when defining a variable that is meant to later hold an object, it's advisable to initialize the variable to null as opposed to anything else. That way, u can explicity check for the value null to determine if the variable has been filled with an object reference at a later time.

```js
  if(car !== null){
    //do something with car
  }
```

> the value undefined derivative of null. so ECMA-262 defines them to be superficially equal as follows(this operator converts its operands for comparison purposes):
```js
  console.log(undefined == null); //true
  console.log(undefined === null); //false
```

### The Boolean Type

#### assignment of boolean values to variables
```js
let found = true;
let lsot = false;
```
#### the Boolean literals true and false are case-sensitive
> the True and False are valid as identifiers but not as Boolean values.

#### To convert a value to its Boolean equivalent, call the Boolean() casting function.
```js
let message = 'hello world';
let messageAsBoolean = Boolean(message);
```
#### the following table outlines the various data types and their specific conversions.

|DATA TYPE|VALUE CONVERSION TO TRUE|VALUES CONVERSION TO FALSE|
|----|---|---|
|Boolean|true|false|
|String|Any nonempty string|""(empty string)|
|Number|Any nonzero number(including infinity)|0, NaN|
|Object|Any object|null|
|Undefined|n/a|undefined|
|----|----|----|


### The Number Type

> The Number uses the IEEE-754 format to represent both integers and floating-point values(also called double-precision values in some languages). To support the various types of numbers, there are several defferent number literal formats.

* decimal integer
  ```js
  let intNum = 55; //integer
  ```

* octal(base 8) literal
  >For an octal literal, the first digit must be a zero(0) followed by a sequence of octal digits(numbers 0 through 7). If a number out of this range is detected in the literal, then the leading zero is ignored and the number is treated as a decimal, as in the following examples.
  ```js
  let octalNum = 070; //octal for 56
  let octalNum2 = 079; //invalid octal - interpreted 79
  let octalNum3 = 08; // invalid octal - interpreted as 8
  ```
  >"Octal literal are invalid when running in strict mode and will cause the javascript engine to throw a syntax error."

* hexadecimal(base 16) literal
  > To create a hexadecimal leteral, you must make the first two characters 0x(case intensive), followed by any number of hexadecimal digits(0 through 9, and A through F). Letters may be in uppercase or lowercase.

  ```js
  let hexNum = 0xA; //hexadecimal for 10
  let hexNum2 = 0x1f; //hexadecimal for 31
  ```

  > Numbers created using octal or hexadecimal format are treated as decimal numbers in all arithmetic operations.

### Floating-Point Values
#### How to define
> to define a floating-point value, you must include a decimal point and at least one number after the decimal point.
> Although an integer is not necessary before a decimal point, it is recommended.
```js
  let floatNum1 = 1.1;
  let floatNum2 = 0.1;
  le tfloatNum3 = .1; //valid, but not recommend
```

#### the difference float and integer
> storing floating-point values uses twice as much memory as storing integer values.

#### other
> 1.For every large or small numbers, floating-point values can e represented using e-notation.
```js
  let floatNum = 3.125e7; //equal to 31250000
```
> 2.Floating-point values are accurate up to 17 decimal places but are far less accurate in arithmetic computations than whole numbers.
```js
  0.1 + 0.2 = 0.30000000000000004;
```

> 3.The rounding-errors are a side effect of the way floating-point arithmetic is done in IEEE-754-based numbers and is not unique to ECMAScript.
> Other languages that use the same format have the same issues.

### Range of Values
> Not all numbers in the world can be represented in ECMAScript because of memory constraints.
> In ECMAScript, the smallest number is stored in `Number.MIN_VALUE`
> the largest number is stored in `Number.MAX_VALUE`
> If a calculation results in a number that cannot be represented by javascript's numeric range, the number automatically gets the special value of Infinity/-Infinity, and the value can't use in any further calculations. because no numeric representation with which to calculate.

> To determine if a value is finite(it occurs between the minimum and the maximum). this function returns true only if the arguments it between the minimum and the maximum values.
```js
  let result = Number.MAX_VALUE + Number.MAX_VALUE;
  console.log(isFinite(result)); //false
```

> Number.NEGATIVE_INFINITY(-Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY) can get the values of positive and negative Infinity.

### NaN